README.md, before:

# WineBot

> **For AI Agents & Automation:** See [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) for the API and programmatic control guide.

WineBot is a containerized harness for running Windows GUI applications under Wine in headless or interactive modes. It provides a stable virtual desktop for automation and optional VNC/noVNC access for debugging.

## Quickstart

Headless:

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile headless up --build`

Interactive (VNC + noVNC):

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile interactive up --build`

If you only have `docker-compose` v1 installed, replace `docker compose` with `docker-compose`.

## Simplified Usage (v0.4+)

The updated entrypoint allows running commands directly with automatic Xvfb management and host user mapping.

**Run a command (pass-through):**
```bash
# Runs 'make' inside the container as the current host user
docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/work -w /work -e HOST_UID=$(id -u) winebot make
```

**Run a Windows executable:**
```bash
docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/work -w /work -e HOST_UID=$(id -u) winebot wine myapp.exe
```

**Interactive Shell:**
```bash
docker run --rm -it -e HOST_UID=$(id -u) winebot bash
```

## Run a Windows app (Compose)

1. Put your executable in `./apps`.
2. Set `APP_EXE` to the path inside the container (defaults to `cmd.exe` if unset).

Example:

`APP_EXE=/apps/MyApp.exe docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile interactive up --build`

You can also set:

- `APP_ARGS` for optional arguments
- `WORKDIR` for a specific working directory
- `APP_NAME` to label the noVNC URL

## Install then run (recommended)

Install into the persistent Wine prefix:

`scripts/install-app.sh apps/MyInstaller.exe`

Run the installed app (use the Unix path to avoid backslash escaping):

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe"`

List installed executables in the prefix:

`scripts/list-installed-apps.sh --pattern "MyApp"`

Run in the background:

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe" --detach`

See `docs/installing-apps.md` for more options.

## Connect to the desktop

- VNC client: `localhost:5900`
- Browser (noVNC): `http://localhost:6080`

Change the default VNC password in `compose/docker-compose.yml`.

## Sessions and artifacts

Every WineBot start creates a new session under `/artifacts/sessions/session-<YYYY-MM-DD>-<unix>-<rand>/`. The session path is exported as `WINEBOT_SESSION_DIR`.

To resume an existing session on startup, set one of:
- `WINEBOT_SESSION_DIR=/artifacts/sessions/<session-id>`
- `WINEBOT_SESSION_ID=<session-id>` (uses `WINEBOT_SESSION_ROOT`)

Common locations inside the session directory:
- `screenshots/` for screenshots captured via API or scripts
- `logs/` for API/entrypoint/automation logs
- `scripts/` for API-generated scripts (AHK/AutoIt/Python)
- `user/` for app inputs/outputs (Wine user home; override with `WINEBOT_USER_DIR`)

Auto-open the dashboard (noVNC + API controls) or a VNC viewer (host helper):

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe" --view novnc`

This forces interactive mode and opens the dashboard (`/ui`) with the embedded noVNC canvas. If a VNC password is set, it is passed via the URL to avoid prompts (consider the security tradeoff).

Explicit example with password:

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe" --view novnc --novnc-password "winebot"`

To avoid embedding the password in the URL:

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe" --view novnc --no-password-url`

If you prefer a VNC client:

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe" --view vnc --vnc-password "winebot"`

Dashboard (noVNC + API controls):

`http://localhost:8000/ui` (enter `API_TOKEN` in the panel if configured)

## Take a screenshot (headless)

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile headless exec --user winebot winebot ./automation/screenshot.sh`

If a session is active, the image is saved under `/artifacts/sessions/<session-id>/screenshots/` inside the container. A JSON sidecar with metadata is written next to it (`.png.json`). You can also specify a custom path or directory as an argument.

## Debug with winedbg

Run an app under winedbg's gdb proxy (port 2345):

`ENABLE_WINEDBG=1 WINEDBG_MODE=gdb WINEDBG_PORT=2345 WINEDBG_NO_START=1 APP_EXE=/apps/MyApp.exe docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile interactive up --build`

Then connect from the host:

`gdb -ex "target remote localhost:2345"`

See [docs/debugging.md](docs/debugging.md) for scripted commands and additional tooling.

## Recording & Annotations

WineBot can record your session to video with automatically generated subtitles and positional overlays.

- **Enable recording:** Pass `--record` to `scripts/run-app.sh`.
- **Add annotations:** Use `scripts/annotate.sh` inside the container to add text or positional overlays during runtime.
- **Toggle visibility:** Subtitles and overlays are stored as separate tracks in the MKV file and can be toggled ON/OFF in players like VLC.

See [docs/recording.md](docs/recording.md) for details.

## Headless Tools & Helpers

WineBot provides helpers to simplify headless interaction:

- **X11 Inspection:** `/automation/x11.sh` (list windows, focus, search)
- **Robust Screenshots:** `/automation/screenshot.sh` (auto-detects X11 env)
- **AutoHotkey Runner:** `/scripts/run-ahk.sh` (handles focus, logs, and wineboot)
- **Windows Inspectors:** `/scripts/au3info.sh` and `/scripts/winspy.sh` (for inspecting controls)
- **Internal API:** HTTP API for programmatic control (see `docs/api.md`).

See [docs/debugging.md](docs/debugging.md) for details.

## Performance & Reliability

Best practices and a low-resource compose override are documented in [docs/performance.md](docs/performance.md).

## Run the sample CV automation

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile headless exec --user winebot winebot python3 automation/find_and_click.py --template automation/assets/example_button.png`

## Run the Notepad automation

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile interactive exec --user winebot winebot-interactive python3 automation/notepad_create_and_verify.py --text "Hello from WineBot" --output /tmp/notepad_test.txt --launch`

## Windows Automation Tools

WineBot includes pre-installed Windows automation tools running under Wine:

- **AutoIt v3** (`autoit`)
- **AutoHotkey v1.1** (`ahk`)
- **Python 3.13** (`winpy`)

See [docs/windows-automation-tools.md](docs/windows-automation-tools.md) for usage.

Run the tool smoke tests:

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile headless exec --user winebot winebot ./tests/run_smoke_tests.sh`

## Smoke test

`scripts/smoke-test.sh`

Variants:

- `scripts/smoke-test.sh --full`
- `scripts/smoke-test.sh --include-interactive`
- `scripts/smoke-test.sh --include-debug`
- `scripts/smoke-test.sh --include-debug-proxy`
- `scripts/smoke-test.sh --full --cleanup`

## Releases & GHCR

GitHub Actions runs smoke tests and publishes images to GHCR on release:

- `ghcr.io/<owner>/winebot:<release-tag>`
- `ghcr.io/<owner>/winebot:latest`
- `ghcr.io/<owner>/winebot:sha-<short>`

Manual runs are supported via Actions → Release → Run workflow. Provide `image_tag` or it defaults to `manual-<sha>`.

## Documentation

- `docs/architecture.md`
- `docs/automation.md`
- `docs/api.md`
- `docs/debugging.md`
- `docs/installing-apps.md`
- `docs/testing.md`
- `docs/troubleshooting.md`

Commit message:

Add unified CLI, dashboard API console, and tests

README.md, after:

# WineBot

> **For AI Agents & Automation:** See [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) for the API and programmatic control guide.

WineBot is a containerized harness for running Windows GUI applications under Wine in headless or interactive modes. It provides a stable virtual desktop for automation and optional VNC/noVNC access for debugging.

## Quickstart

Headless:

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile headless up --build`

Interactive (VNC + noVNC):

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile interactive up --build`

If you only have `docker-compose` v1 installed, replace `docker compose` with `docker-compose`.

## Simplified Usage (v0.4+)

The updated entrypoint allows running commands directly with automatic Xvfb management and host user mapping.

**Run a command (pass-through):**
```bash
# Runs 'make' inside the container as the current host user
docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/work -w /work -e HOST_UID=$(id -u) winebot make
```

**Run a Windows executable:**
```bash
docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/work -w /work -e HOST_UID=$(id -u) winebot wine myapp.exe
```

**Interactive Shell:**
```bash
docker run --rm -it -e HOST_UID=$(id -u) winebot bash
```

## Run a Windows app (Compose)

1. Put your executable in `./apps`.
2. Set `APP_EXE` to the path inside the container (defaults to `cmd.exe` if unset).

Example:

`APP_EXE=/apps/MyApp.exe docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile interactive up --build`

You can also set:

- `APP_ARGS` for optional arguments
- `WORKDIR` for a specific working directory
- `APP_NAME` to label the noVNC URL

## Install then run (recommended)

Install into the persistent Wine prefix:

`scripts/install-app.sh apps/MyInstaller.exe`

Run the installed app (use the Unix path to avoid backslash escaping):

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe"`

List installed executables in the prefix:

`scripts/list-installed-apps.sh --pattern "MyApp"`

Run in the background:

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe" --detach`

See `docs/installing-apps.md` for more options.

## Connect to the desktop

- VNC client: `localhost:5900`
- Browser (noVNC): `http://localhost:6080`

Change the default VNC password in `compose/docker-compose.yml`.

## Sessions and artifacts

Every WineBot start creates a new session under `/artifacts/sessions/session-<YYYY-MM-DD>-<unix>-<rand>/`. The session path is exported as `WINEBOT_SESSION_DIR`.

To resume an existing session on startup, set one of:
- `WINEBOT_SESSION_DIR=/artifacts/sessions/<session-id>`
- `WINEBOT_SESSION_ID=<session-id>` (uses `WINEBOT_SESSION_ROOT`)

Common locations inside the session directory:
- `screenshots/` for screenshots captured via API or scripts
- `logs/` for API/entrypoint/automation logs
- `scripts/` for API-generated scripts (AHK/AutoIt/Python)
- `user/` for app inputs/outputs (Wine user home; override with `WINEBOT_USER_DIR`)

Auto-open the dashboard (noVNC + API controls) or a VNC viewer (host helper):

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe" --view novnc`

This forces interactive mode and opens the dashboard (`/ui`) with the embedded noVNC canvas. If a VNC password is set, it is passed via the URL to avoid prompts (consider the security tradeoff).

Explicit example with password:

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe" --view novnc --novnc-password "winebot"`

To avoid embedding the password in the URL:

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe" --view novnc --no-password-url`

If you prefer a VNC client:

`scripts/run-app.sh "/wineprefix/drive_c/Program Files/MyApp/MyApp.exe" --view vnc --vnc-password "winebot"`

Dashboard (noVNC + API controls):

`http://localhost:8000/ui` (enter `API_TOKEN` in the panel if configured)

## Unified CLI (API-first)

Use `scripts/winebotctl` to access the full API from the host or container. It supports idempotent mode and a generic API passthrough.

Examples:

`scripts/winebotctl health`

`scripts/winebotctl sessions list`

`scripts/winebotctl recording start --session-root /artifacts/sessions`

`scripts/winebotctl api POST /sessions/suspend --json '{"shutdown_wine":true}'`

## Take a screenshot (headless)

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile headless exec --user winebot winebot ./automation/screenshot.sh`

If a session is active, the image is saved under `/artifacts/sessions/<session-id>/screenshots/` inside the container. A JSON sidecar with metadata is written next to it (`.png.json`). You can also specify a custom path or directory as an argument.

## Debug with winedbg

Run an app under winedbg's gdb proxy (port 2345):

`ENABLE_WINEDBG=1 WINEDBG_MODE=gdb WINEDBG_PORT=2345 WINEDBG_NO_START=1 APP_EXE=/apps/MyApp.exe docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile interactive up --build`

Then connect from the host:

`gdb -ex "target remote localhost:2345"`

See [docs/debugging.md](docs/debugging.md) for scripted commands and additional tooling.

## Recording & Annotations

WineBot can record your session to video with automatically generated subtitles and positional overlays.

- **Enable recording:** Pass `--record` to `scripts/run-app.sh`.
- **Add annotations:** Use `scripts/annotate.sh` inside the container to add text or positional overlays during runtime.
- **Toggle visibility:** Subtitles and overlays are stored as separate tracks in the MKV file and can be toggled ON/OFF in players like VLC.

See [docs/recording.md](docs/recording.md) for details.

## Headless Tools & Helpers

WineBot provides helpers to simplify headless interaction:

- **X11 Inspection:** `/automation/x11.sh` (list windows, focus, search)
- **Robust Screenshots:** `/automation/screenshot.sh` (auto-detects X11 env)
- **AutoHotkey Runner:** `/scripts/run-ahk.sh` (handles focus, logs, and wineboot)
- **Windows Inspectors:** `/scripts/au3info.sh` and `/scripts/winspy.sh` (for inspecting controls)
- **Internal API:** HTTP API for programmatic control (see `docs/api.md`).

See [docs/debugging.md](docs/debugging.md) for details.

## Performance & Reliability

Best practices and a low-resource compose override are documented in [docs/performance.md](docs/performance.md).

## Run the sample CV automation

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile headless exec --user winebot winebot python3 automation/find_and_click.py --template automation/assets/example_button.png`

## Run the Notepad automation

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile interactive exec --user winebot winebot-interactive python3 automation/notepad_create_and_verify.py --text "Hello from WineBot" --output /tmp/notepad_test.txt --launch`

## Windows Automation Tools

WineBot includes pre-installed Windows automation tools running under Wine:

- **AutoIt v3** (`autoit`)
- **AutoHotkey v1.1** (`ahk`)
- **Python 3.13** (`winpy`)

See [docs/windows-automation-tools.md](docs/windows-automation-tools.md) for usage.

Run the tool smoke tests:

`docker compose -f compose/docker-compose.yml --profile headless exec --user winebot winebot ./tests/run_smoke_tests.sh`

## Smoke test

`scripts/smoke-test.sh`

Variants:

- `scripts/smoke-test.sh --full`
- `scripts/smoke-test.sh --include-interactive`
- `scripts/smoke-test.sh --include-debug`
- `scripts/smoke-test.sh --include-debug-proxy`
- `scripts/smoke-test.sh --full --cleanup`

## Releases & GHCR

GitHub Actions runs smoke tests and publishes images to GHCR on release:

- `ghcr.io/<owner>/winebot:<release-tag>`
- `ghcr.io/<owner>/winebot:latest`
- `ghcr.io/<owner>/winebot:sha-<short>`

Manual runs are supported via Actions → Release → Run workflow. Provide `image_tag` or it defaults to `manual-<sha>`.

## Documentation

- `docs/architecture.md`
- `docs/automation.md`
- `docs/api.md`
- `docs/debugging.md`
- `docs/installing-apps.md`
- `docs/testing.md`
- `docs/troubleshooting.md`
