docs/automation.md, before:

# Automation

WineBot includes a minimal automation SDK in `automation/` to help with debugging and simple UI flows.
When using `docker compose exec` (or `docker-compose exec`), run automation as `winebot` to avoid Wine prefix ownership errors.

## Scripts

- `automation/screenshot.sh` captures the virtual desktop to `/tmp/screenshot.png`
- `automation/click_xy.sh` clicks absolute coordinates via `xdotool`
- `automation/find_and_click.py` performs OpenCV template matching and clicks the best match
- `automation/notepad_create_and_verify.py` writes and verifies a file via Notepad

## Example

`python3 automation/find_and_click.py --template automation/assets/example_button.png --threshold 0.8 --retries 5`

Write and validate a file in Notepad:

`python3 automation/notepad_create_and_verify.py --text "Hello from WineBot" --output /tmp/notepad_test.txt --launch`

Exit codes:

- `0` match found and clicked
- `2` no match found after retries

For debugger-driven automation (winedbg, gdb proxy, scripted commands), see `docs/debugging.md`.

Commit message:

v0.4: Enhance entrypoint, add Windows automation tools, and timestamped screenshots
- Rewrite entrypoint for pass-through execution and host UID/GID mapping
- Add AutoIt v3 and AutoHotkey v1.1 integration
- Add Windows Embedded Python 3.11 environment (winpy)
- Support timestamped screenshots in automation/screenshot.sh
- Update documentation and scripts for better compatibility

docs/automation.md, after:

# Automation

WineBot supports two layers of automation:
1.  **Windows-native tools** (AutoIt, AutoHotkey) running *inside* Wine.
2.  **External CV/Input tools** (OpenCV, xdotool) running in the Linux container environment.

## Windows Automation Tools (Preferred)

For direct control of Windows GUI elements, use the pre-installed tools. See [windows-automation-tools.md](windows-automation-tools.md) for details on `autoit`, `ahk`, and `winpy`.

## Linux/CV Automation SDK

WineBot includes a minimal automation SDK in `automation/` to help with debugging and simple UI flows when direct control isn't possible.
When using `docker compose exec` (or `docker-compose exec`), run automation as `winebot` to avoid Wine prefix ownership errors.

## Scripts

- `automation/screenshot.sh` captures the virtual desktop to a timestamped file in `/tmp` (or a custom path).
- `automation/click_xy.sh` clicks absolute coordinates via `xdotool`
- `automation/find_and_click.py` performs OpenCV template matching and clicks the best match
- `automation/notepad_create_and_verify.py` writes and verifies a file via Notepad

## Example

`python3 automation/find_and_click.py --template automation/assets/example_button.png --threshold 0.8 --retries 5`

Write and validate a file in Notepad:

`python3 automation/notepad_create_and_verify.py --text "Hello from WineBot" --output /tmp/notepad_test.txt --launch`

Exit codes:

- `0` match found and clicked
- `2` no match found after retries

For debugger-driven automation (winedbg, gdb proxy, scripted commands), see `docs/debugging.md`.
